docs/notebooks/engines/README.md, before:

# Planning Engines Examples

We present here a list of notebooks, divided by planning approaches.


Classical Planning
------------------

Numeric Planning
----------------

Temporal Planning
-----------------

[![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](../03-temporal-planning.ipynb)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/unified-planning/blob/master/docs/notebooks/03-temporal-planning.ipynb)

In this notebook we show how to use the unified planning library to model temporal problems.


Multi-agent Planning
--------------------

Refinement Planning
-------------------

[![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](../07-hierrachical-planning.ipynb)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/unified-planning/blob/master/docs/notebooks/07-hierrachical-planning.ipynb)

In this notebook, we show how to use unified planning library to define hierrachical planning problem.


Combined Task and Motion Planning
---------------------------------

[![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](https:///github.com/aiplan4eu/up-spiderplan/blob/master/notebook/Combined%20Task%20and%20Motion%20Planning.ipynb)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/up-spiderplan/blob/master/notebook/Combined%20Task%20and%20Motion%20Planning.ipynb)

In this notebook, we show how to use unified planning library to define combined task and motion planning problem.

Commit message:

Add notebooks for classical planning to list

docs/notebooks/engines/README.md, after:

# Planning Engines Examples

We present here a list of notebooks, divided by planning approaches.


Classical Planning
------------------
- In this notebook we show how to model and solve classical problems:
  
  [![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](../01-basic-example.ipynb) [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/unified-planning/blob/master/docs/notebooks/01-basic-example.ipynb)
  
- In this notebook we show how to add optimization metrics and solve the problem optimally:
  
  [![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](../02-optimal-planning.ipynb) [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/unified-planning/blob/master/docs/notebooks/02-optimal-planning.ipynb)
  
- In this (external) notebook we demonstrate the capabilities of the Fast Downward engines (including anytime operation mode, grounding and advanced topics such as using alternative configurations and troubleshooting):

  [![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](https://github.com/aiplan4eu/up-fast-downward/blob/main/notebooks/usage-examples.ipynb) [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/up-fast-downward/blob/main/notebooks/usage-examples.ipynb)

Numeric Planning
----------------

Temporal Planning
-----------------

[![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](../03-temporal-planning.ipynb)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/unified-planning/blob/master/docs/notebooks/03-temporal-planning.ipynb)

In this notebook we show how to use the unified planning library to model temporal problems.


Multi-agent Planning
--------------------

Refinement Planning
-------------------

[![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](../07-hierrachical-planning.ipynb)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/unified-planning/blob/master/docs/notebooks/07-hierrachical-planning.ipynb)

In this notebook, we show how to use unified planning library to define hierrachical planning problem.


Combined Task and Motion Planning
---------------------------------

[![Open In GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/see-Github-579aca?logo=github)](https:///github.com/aiplan4eu/up-spiderplan/blob/master/notebook/Combined%20Task%20and%20Motion%20Planning.ipynb)
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/aiplan4eu/up-spiderplan/blob/master/notebook/Combined%20Task%20and%20Motion%20Planning.ipynb)

In this notebook, we show how to use unified planning library to define combined task and motion planning problem.
