docs/interoperability.rst, before:

I/O & Interoperability
=================================

In order to make the library immediately usable for people having existing code on projects such as `tarski <https://github.com/aig-upf/tarski>`_ and/or other tools based on formal languages such as ``PDDL`` or ``ANML``, we developed a series of interoperability features to make use of existing models written in (different flavors of) PDDL or ANML and to convert from and to `tarski`.

PDDL/MAPDDL/HDDL reader and writer
----------------------------------

The library offers a comprehensive and well-tested parser for PDDL 2.1 level 3 (i.e. up to temporal planning without continuous change). The parser can be invoked as shown in the example below and can be used either to parse a whole planning instance (i.e. a domain and a problem), or just to parse the domain file, resulting in an incomplete ``Problem`` object that can be completed using the UP API as shown below. This latter use-case allows to model the action schemata using PDDL and then formulate the problem(s) using the UP (possibly using data available at runtime for doing so).

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: PDDLReader example
    :lines: 12-16

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: PDDLReader with domain file and problem populated using UP
    :lines: 18-32

Vice-versa, it is possible to generate the PDDL representation of a planning problem represented in the UP. This printing facility is limited to the modeling features available in PDDL 2.1 level 3 (e.g., no intermediate or external conditions or effects are supported).

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: PDDLWriter example
    :lines: 40-48

For hierarchical planning problems, we also have a reader and writer for the `HDDL language <https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.05499>`_ working analogously to the basic PDDL ones and demonstrated below.

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: HDDL Read & Write example
    :lines: 52-64

Analogously, for multi-agent planning problems the UP provides a writer to the MAPDDL formalism

.. code-block::
    :caption: MAPDDL Writer Example

        multiagent_problem = ...
        writer = MAPDDLWriter(multiagent_problem)
        domain_directory = ... # Path to directory where MA-PDDL domains will be printed.
        writer.write_ma_domain(domain_directory)
        problem_directory = ... # Path to file where the MA-PDDL problems will be printed.
        writer.write_ma_problem(problem_directory)

ANML Reader & Writer
--------------------

Also for the expressive ANML planning language, the UP provides a reader and a writer. At the time of writing the ANML support is limited to temporal planning, but we plan to add support for hierarchical features as well.


.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/anml_interop.py
    :caption: ANMLReader example
    :lines: 13-15

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/anml_interop.py
    :caption: ANMLWriter example
    :lines: 18-21



Tarski Interoperability
-----------------------

Tarski is a python library providing planning support for a fragment of numeric planning. Differently from the UP, tarski does not involve multiple planning engines, but allows the creation, printing, parsing and solving of a planning specification called FSTRIPS. In order to make the UP and the tarski problem representation interoperable (up to the planning fragment supported by tarski), we created two conversion procedures, namely ``convert_problem_to_tarski(p : Problem)``, which takes a UP problem representation and produces an FSTRIPS problem representation as a tarski object, and ``convert_problem_from_tarski(env: Environment, tp: tarski.fstrips.Problem)`` which performs the inverse conversion. These functions allow the use of the tarski toolset starting from UP problems and vice-versa.

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: tarski interoperability example
    :lines: 69-82

Commit message:

Documentation
 - Added `code-block` with code for PDDL reader example that shows the import the user needs to do.

docs/interoperability.rst, after:

I/O & Interoperability
=================================

In order to make the library immediately usable for people having existing code on projects such as `tarski <https://github.com/aig-upf/tarski>`_ and/or other tools based on formal languages such as ``PDDL`` or ``ANML``, we developed a series of interoperability features to make use of existing models written in (different flavors of) PDDL or ANML and to convert from and to `tarski`.

PDDL/MAPDDL/HDDL reader and writer
----------------------------------

The library offers a comprehensive and well-tested parser for PDDL 2.1 level 3 (i.e. up to temporal planning without continuous change). The parser can be invoked as shown in the example below and can be used either to parse a whole planning instance (i.e. a domain and a problem), or just to parse the domain file, resulting in an incomplete ``Problem`` object that can be completed using the UP API as shown below. This latter use-case allows to model the action schemata using PDDL and then formulate the problem(s) using the UP (possibly using data available at runtime for doing so).

.. code-block::
    :caption: PDDLReader example

        from unified_planning.io import PDDLReader
        # ...
        reader = PDDLReader()
        # Reader used with both domain and problem file
        # domain_filename = ... # path of the PDDL domain file
        # problem_filename = ... # path of the PDDL problem file
        problem = reader.parse_problem(domain_filename, problem_filename)

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: PDDLReader with domain file and problem populated using UP
    :lines: 18-32

Vice-versa, it is possible to generate the PDDL representation of a planning problem represented in the UP. This printing facility is limited to the modeling features available in PDDL 2.1 level 3 (e.g., no intermediate or external conditions or effects are supported).

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: PDDLWriter example
    :lines: 40-48

For hierarchical planning problems, we also have a reader and writer for the `HDDL language <https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.05499>`_ working analogously to the basic PDDL ones and demonstrated below.

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: HDDL Read & Write example
    :lines: 52-64

Analogously, for multi-agent planning problems the UP provides a writer to the MAPDDL formalism

.. code-block::
    :caption: MAPDDL Writer Example

        multiagent_problem = ...
        writer = MAPDDLWriter(multiagent_problem)
        domain_directory = ... # Path to directory where MA-PDDL domains will be printed.
        writer.write_ma_domain(domain_directory)
        problem_directory = ... # Path to file where the MA-PDDL problems will be printed.
        writer.write_ma_problem(problem_directory)

ANML Reader & Writer
--------------------

Also for the expressive ANML planning language, the UP provides a reader and a writer. At the time of writing the ANML support is limited to temporal planning, but we plan to add support for hierarchical features as well.


.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/anml_interop.py
    :caption: ANMLReader example
    :lines: 13-15

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/anml_interop.py
    :caption: ANMLWriter example
    :lines: 18-21



Tarski Interoperability
-----------------------

Tarski is a python library providing planning support for a fragment of numeric planning. Differently from the UP, tarski does not involve multiple planning engines, but allows the creation, printing, parsing and solving of a planning specification called FSTRIPS. In order to make the UP and the tarski problem representation interoperable (up to the planning fragment supported by tarski), we created two conversion procedures, namely ``convert_problem_to_tarski(p : Problem)``, which takes a UP problem representation and produces an FSTRIPS problem representation as a tarski object, and ``convert_problem_from_tarski(env: Environment, tp: tarski.fstrips.Problem)`` which performs the inverse conversion. These functions allow the use of the tarski toolset starting from UP problems and vice-versa.

.. literalinclude:: ./code_snippets/pddl_interop.py
    :caption: tarski interoperability example
    :lines: 69-82
